README.md, before:

# UltimateRegexResource

📝 A compilation of Regex syntax and resources for the Google DSC Regex Event

[![Discuss On Discord][discord]][discord-url]
[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Issues][issues]][issues-url]

<!-- 📄 TODO: Add after presentation [**Watch a recording of the Regex presentation here!**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mqhDMv6nIVI) -->

Regex, or [regular expressions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression), are patterns used to match strings. Regex is commonly used for searching/filtering strings for information, input validation, and web scraping. "Real world" examples include everything from validating email addresses to formatting class names in a grades app.

Regex is incredibly powerful, but it's also often intimidating to learn and difficult to remember.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/47064842/124194070-ee6c7680-da95-11eb-8f9a-0a2d3f7c4f33.png)

For that reason, I've compiled a selection of the most helpful and commonly used regex syntax and some regex resources for your use below!

#### Notes

<!-- The [Docs](https://github.com/GoldinGuy/UltimateRegexResource/tree/main/docs) folder of this repo contains a simple profile/resume static site built on HTML5 and [TailwindCSS](https://v1.tailwindcss.com/) to help learn about [Github pages](https://pages.github.com/). You can clone the repository and test it out yourself, or visit [this link](https://goldinguy.github.io/UltimateRegexResource/) to see a live demo. For more info look at the [README](https://github.com/GoldinGuy/UltimateRegexResource/blob/main/docs/README.md) for the `/docs` directory. -->

This repo contains a powerpoint presentation that can be viewed online [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1cTKU9GCAiubAG2wcFk9VdNwo5mn0ulzB7bJz9GICAWY/edit?usp=sharing).

Anywhere used below, `char` is shorthand for `character` (letter, digit or symbol), and `exp` is shorthand for a `regular expression`.

## 📄 Table of Contents

TBD

<!-- - [Installing Git](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/getting-started-with-github/set-up-git)
- [Gitting Existing Projects](#-gitting-existing-projects)
- [Gitting Started - Setting Up a New Repo](#-gitting-started---setting-up-a-new-repo)
- [The Nitty Gitty - Examine History & State](#-the-nitty-gitty---examine-history--state)
- [Branching Out - Grow, Mark & Tweak History](#-branching-out---grow-mark--tweak-history)
- [Git Gud - Dealing With Merge Conflicts](#-git-gud---dealing-with-merge-conflicts)
- [Git More - Pushing, Pulling, & Remote Origin](#-git-more---pushing-pulling--remote-origin)
- [Gitting Complicated - The Danger Zone](#-gitting-complicated---the-danger-zone)
- [Git Resources](#-more-git-resources)
- [Contributing](#contributing) -->

### ✏️ Characters in a Regex Story

| Syntax | Description               | Matches                                                                                         | Example String | Example Expression | Example Match |
| ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------- |
| `.`    | _any_ char                | Literally any char _(except line break)_                                                        | `a-c1-3`       | `a.c`              | `a-c`         |
| `\w`   | _word_ char               | ASCII char _(Or Unicode char in Python & C#)_                                                   | `a-c1-3`       | `\w-\w`            | `a-c`         |
| `\d`   | _digit_ char              | Digit 0-9 _(Or Unicode digit in Python & C#)_                                                   | `a-c1-3`       | `\d-\d`            | `1-3`         |
| `\s`   | _whitespace_ char         | Space, tab, vertical tab, newline, carriage return _(Or Unicode seperator in Python, C#, & JS)_ | `a b`          | `a\sb`             | `a b`         |
| `\W`   | **NOT** _word_ char       | Anything `\w` does not match                                                                    | `a-c1-3`       | `\W-\W`            | `1-3`         |
| `\D`   | **NOT** _digit_ char      | Anything `\d` does not match                                                                    | `a-c1-3`       | `\D-\D`            | `a-c`         |
| `\S`   | **NOT** _whitespace_ char | Anything `\s` does not match                                                                    | `a-c1-3`       | `\S-\S`            | `a-c`         |

### 🖋️ Special Characters

| Syntax | Description   | Matches                                                                                             | Example String | Example Expression | Example Match |
| ------ | ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------- |
| `\`    | _escape_ char | When placed before special chars, matches them. This includes the following chars: `[{()}].*+?$^/\` | `)$[]*{`       | `\[\]`             | `[]`          |

### 🖌️ Quantifiers

| Syntax   | Description        | Matches                                     | Example String | Example Expression | Example Match |
| -------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------- |
| `c?`     | _0-1_ quantifier   | 0 or 1 of the preceding expression          | `ccc`          | `c?`               | `c`           |
| `c{X}`   | _X_ quantifier     | X of the preceding expression               | `ccc`          | `c{2}`             | `cc`          |
| `c{X,}`  | _X+_ quantifier    | X or more of the preceding expression       | `ccc`          | `c{2,}`            | `ccc`         |
| `c{X,Y}` | _range_ quantifier | Between X and Y of the preceding expression | `ccc`          | `c{1,3}`           | `ccc`         |

Beyond standard quantifiers, there are a few additional types: _greedy_, _lazy_, and _possessive_.

| Syntax | Description                | Matches                                                          | Example String | Example Expression | Example Match |
| ------ | -------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------- |
| `c*`   | _0+ greedy_ quantifier     | as many chars as possible                                        | `abccc`        | `c*`               | `ccc`         |
| `c+`   | _1+ greedy_ quantifier     | 1 or more of the preceding expression, as many chars as possible | `ccc`          | `c+`               | `ccc`         |
| `c*?`  | _0+ lazy_ quantifier       | as few chars as possible                                         | `abccc`        | `c*?`              | `c`           |
| `c+?`  | _1+ lazy_ quantifier       | as few chars as possible                                         | `abccc`        | `c+?`              | `c`           |
| `c*+`  | _0+ possessive_ quantifier | as many chars as possible without backtracking                   | `abccc`        | `c*+`              | `ccc`         |
| `c++`  | _1+ possessive_ quantifier | as many chars as possible without backtracking                   | `abccc`        | `c++`              | `ccc`         |

### 🖊️ Anchors

| Syntax   | Description            | Matches                                     | Example Expression | Example Match |
| -------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------- |
| `^c`     | _start_ anchor         | start of string                             | `c?`               | `c`           |
| `c$`     | _end_ anchor           | end of string                               | `c+`               | `c`           |
| `c{X}`   | _X_ quantifier         | X of the preceding expression               | `c{2}`             | `cc`          |
| `c{X,}`  | _X-or-more_ quantifier | X or more of the preceding expression       | `c{2,}`            | `ccc`         |
| `c{X,Y}` | _range_ quantifier     | Between X and Y of the preceding expression | `c{1,3}`           | `ccc`         |

<!-- ### 🖍️ The Nitty Gitty - Examine History & State

| Command | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| `git status` | See details about the current branch |
| `git show` | Shows changes in committed files |
| `git log` | View changes in commit history |
| `git log --summary` | View changes (detailed) |
| `git log --oneline` | View changes (briefly) |
| `git diff <source branch> <target branch>` | Preview changes before merging | -->

<!--
### ✒️ Regex Resources

- [Git Docs](https://git-scm.com/doc), for those who want to dive deep into the documentation
- [Git Handbook](https://guides.github.com/introduction/git-handbook/), for those who want a quick overview
- [Visual Git CheatSheet](https://ndpsoftware.com/git-cheatsheet.html), for those who are visual learners
- [Official Printable PDF CheatSheet](https://training.github.com/downloads/github-git-cheat-sheet.pdf), for those who need the physcial copy
- [Visualize Git Under the Hood](https://git-school.github.io/visualizing-git/), allows you to explore exactly how commands affect repo structure
- [Stanford GitMagic](http://www-cs-students.stanford.edu/~blynn/gitmagic/), a plain but detailed quide to git
- [GitReady](http://gitready.com/), lets you learn git one commit at a time
- [Git From the Bottom Up](https://jwiegley.github.io/git-from-the-bottom-up/), gives you a better understanding of the powerful system
- [Git, the Simple Guide](https://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/), as stated, with no deep knowledge required
- [Git Explained (Not just commands)](https://towardsdatascience.com/git-help-all-2d0bb0c31483), a brief guide including more than commands
- [Git-It](https://github.com/jlord/git-it-electron#what-to-install), an app that teaches you git via challenges in the terminal
- [Interactive Way to Learn Git Branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/), for an enjoyable way to tackle an important concept
- [Git Markdown Emoji](https://github.com/ikatyang/emoji-cheat-sheet), to spice up your Git repos
- [Article on Writing Good Commit Messages](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/), which pretty much everyone could stand to improve ;)
- [Github Student Developer Pack](https://education.github.com/pack), seriously, if you're a student you should have this
- [Intro to Git Rebase](https://dev.to/maxwell_dev/the-git-rebase-introduction-i-wish-id-had), a great explanation of a powerful command -->

### Contributing

1. Fork UltimateRegexResource [here](https://github.com/GoldinGuy/UltimateRegexResource/fork)
2. Create a branch with your improvements (`git checkout -b improvement/fooBar`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some fooBar'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin improvement/fooBar`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

#### Meta

Created by [@GoldinGuy](https://github.com/GoldinGuy) for the FAU Google DSC Regex Event.

<!-- Markdown link & img dfn's -->

[discord-url]: https://discord.gg/gKYSMeJ
[discord]: https://img.shields.io/discord/689176425701703810
[issues]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/GoldinGuy/UltimateRegexResource
[issues-url]: https://github.com/GoldinGuy/UltimateRegexResource/issues
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/GoldinGuy/UltimateRegexResource.svg?style=flat-square
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/GoldinGuy/UltimateRegexResource/graphs/contributors

Commit message:

add flags and basic regex concepts

README.md, after:

# UltimateRegexResource

📝 A compilation of Regex syntax and resources for the Google DSC Regex Event

[![Discuss On Discord][discord]][discord-url]
[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Issues][issues]][issues-url]

<!-- 📄 TODO: Add after presentation [**Watch a recording of the Regex presentation here!**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mqhDMv6nIVI) -->

Regex, or [regular expressions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression), are patterns used to match strings. Regex is commonly used for searching/filtering strings for information, input validation, and web scraping. "Real world" examples include everything from validating email addresses to formatting class names in a grades app.

Regex is incredibly powerful, but it's also often intimidating to learn and difficult to remember.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/47064842/124194070-ee6c7680-da95-11eb-8f9a-0a2d3f7c4f33.png)

For that reason, I've compiled a selection of the most helpful and commonly used regex syntax and some regex resources for your use below!

#### Notes

<!-- The [Docs](https://github.com/GoldinGuy/UltimateRegexResource/tree/main/docs) folder of this repo contains a simple profile/resume static site built on HTML5 and [TailwindCSS](https://v1.tailwindcss.com/) to help learn about [Github pages](https://pages.github.com/). You can clone the repository and test it out yourself, or visit [this link](https://goldinguy.github.io/UltimateRegexResource/) to see a live demo. For more info look at the [README](https://github.com/GoldinGuy/UltimateRegexResource/blob/main/docs/README.md) for the `/docs` directory. -->

This repo contains a powerpoint presentation that can be viewed online [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1cTKU9GCAiubAG2wcFk9VdNwo5mn0ulzB7bJz9GICAWY/edit?usp=sharing).

Anywhere used below, `char` is shorthand for `character` (letter, digit or symbol), and `exp` is shorthand for a `regular expression`.

## 📄 Table of Contents

TBD

<!-- - [Installing Git](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/getting-started-with-github/set-up-git)
- [Gitting Existing Projects](#-gitting-existing-projects)
- [Gitting Started - Setting Up a New Repo](#-gitting-started---setting-up-a-new-repo)
- [The Nitty Gitty - Examine History & State](#-the-nitty-gitty---examine-history--state)
- [Branching Out - Grow, Mark & Tweak History](#-branching-out---grow-mark--tweak-history)
- [Git Gud - Dealing With Merge Conflicts](#-git-gud---dealing-with-merge-conflicts)
- [Git More - Pushing, Pulling, & Remote Origin](#-git-more---pushing-pulling--remote-origin)
- [Gitting Complicated - The Danger Zone](#-gitting-complicated---the-danger-zone)
- [Git Resources](#-more-git-resources)
- [Contributing](#contributing) -->

### ✒️ Basics of Regex

- Regular expressions start and end with "slash" characters `/`.
- Patterns return the first [case-sensitive](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Case_sensitivity) match they find by default.

Therefore, given the sample string `red green blue BLUE blue`:

`/blue/` matches the first instance of "blue."

Regex includes several flags that are appended to the end of the expression to change behavior:

| Syntax | Description        | Behavior                        |
| ------ | ------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| `g`    | _global_ flag      | Returns additional matches      |
| `i`    | _insensitive_ flag | Allows case-insensitive matches |

Using the same string as before, the updated regex `/blue/gi` will now return `blue BLUE blue`.

### ✏️ Characters in a Regex Story

| Syntax | Description               | Matches                                                                                         | Example String | Example Expression | Example Match |
| ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------- |
| `.`    | _any_ char                | Literally any char _(except line break)_                                                        | `a-c1-3`       | `a.c`              | `a-c`         |
| `\w`   | _word_ char               | ASCII char _(Or Unicode char in Python & C#)_                                                   | `a-c1-3`       | `\w-\w`            | `a-c`         |
| `\d`   | _digit_ char              | Digit 0-9 _(Or Unicode digit in Python & C#)_                                                   | `a-c1-3`       | `\d-\d`            | `1-3`         |
| `\s`   | _whitespace_ char         | Space, tab, vertical tab, newline, carriage return _(Or Unicode seperator in Python, C#, & JS)_ | `a b`          | `a\sb`             | `a b`         |
| `\W`   | **NOT** _word_ char       | Anything `\w` does not match                                                                    | `a-c1-3`       | `\W-\W`            | `1-3`         |
| `\D`   | **NOT** _digit_ char      | Anything `\d` does not match                                                                    | `a-c1-3`       | `\D-\D`            | `a-c`         |
| `\S`   | **NOT** _whitespace_ char | Anything `\s` does not match                                                                    | `a-c1-3`       | `\S-\S`            | `a-c`         |

### 🖋️ Special Characters

| Syntax | Description   | Matches                                                                                             | Example String | Example Expression | Example Match |
| ------ | ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------- |
| `\`    | _escape_ char | When placed before special chars, matches them. This includes the following chars: `[{()}].*+?$^/\` | `)$[]*{`       | `\[\]`             | `[]`          |

### 🖌️ Quantifiers

| Syntax   | Description        | Matches                                     | Example String | Example Expression | Example Match |
| -------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------- |
| `c?`     | _0-1_ quantifier   | 0 or 1 of the preceding expression          | `ccc`          | `c?`               | `c`           |
| `c{X}`   | _X_ quantifier     | X of the preceding expression               | `ccc`          | `c{2}`             | `cc`          |
| `c{X,}`  | _X+_ quantifier    | X or more of the preceding expression       | `ccc`          | `c{2,}`            | `ccc`         |
| `c{X,Y}` | _range_ quantifier | Between X and Y of the preceding expression | `ccc`          | `c{1,3}`           | `ccc`         |

Beyond standard quantifiers, there are a few additional types: _greedy_, _lazy_, and _possessive_.

| Syntax | Description                | Matches                                                          | Example String | Example Expression | Example Match |
| ------ | -------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------- |
| `c*`   | _0+ greedy_ quantifier     | as many chars as possible                                        | `abccc`        | `c*`               | `ccc`         |
| `c+`   | _1+ greedy_ quantifier     | 1 or more of the preceding expression, as many chars as possible | `ccc`          | `c+`               | `ccc`         |
| `c*?`  | _0+ lazy_ quantifier       | as few chars as possible                                         | `abccc`        | `c*?`              | `c`           |
| `c+?`  | _1+ lazy_ quantifier       | as few chars as possible                                         | `abccc`        | `c+?`              | `c`           |
| `c*+`  | _0+ possessive_ quantifier | as many chars as possible without backtracking                   | `abccc`        | `c*+`              | `ccc`         |
| `c++`  | _1+ possessive_ quantifier | as many chars as possible without backtracking                   | `abccc`        | `c++`              | `ccc`         |

### 🖊️ Anchors

| Syntax   | Description            | Matches                                     | Example Expression | Example Match |
| -------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------- |
| `^c`     | _start_ anchor         | start of string                             | `c?`               | `c`           |
| `c$`     | _end_ anchor           | end of string                               | `c+`               | `c`           |
| `c{X}`   | _X_ quantifier         | X of the preceding expression               | `c{2}`             | `cc`          |
| `c{X,}`  | _X-or-more_ quantifier | X or more of the preceding expression       | `c{2,}`            | `ccc`         |
| `c{X,Y}` | _range_ quantifier     | Between X and Y of the preceding expression | `c{1,3}`           | `ccc`         |

<!-- ### 🖍️ The Nitty Gitty - Examine History & State

| Command | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| `git status` | See details about the current branch |
| `git show` | Shows changes in committed files |
| `git log` | View changes in commit history |
| `git log --summary` | View changes (detailed) |
| `git log --oneline` | View changes (briefly) |
| `git diff <source branch> <target branch>` | Preview changes before merging | -->

<!--
### ✒️ Regex Resources

- [Git Docs](https://git-scm.com/doc), for those who want to dive deep into the documentation
- [Git Handbook](https://guides.github.com/introduction/git-handbook/), for those who want a quick overview
- [Visual Git CheatSheet](https://ndpsoftware.com/git-cheatsheet.html), for those who are visual learners
- [Official Printable PDF CheatSheet](https://training.github.com/downloads/github-git-cheat-sheet.pdf), for those who need the physcial copy
- [Visualize Git Under the Hood](https://git-school.github.io/visualizing-git/), allows you to explore exactly how commands affect repo structure
- [Stanford GitMagic](http://www-cs-students.stanford.edu/~blynn/gitmagic/), a plain but detailed quide to git
- [GitReady](http://gitready.com/), lets you learn git one commit at a time
- [Git From the Bottom Up](https://jwiegley.github.io/git-from-the-bottom-up/), gives you a better understanding of the powerful system
- [Git, the Simple Guide](https://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/), as stated, with no deep knowledge required
- [Git Explained (Not just commands)](https://towardsdatascience.com/git-help-all-2d0bb0c31483), a brief guide including more than commands
- [Git-It](https://github.com/jlord/git-it-electron#what-to-install), an app that teaches you git via challenges in the terminal
- [Interactive Way to Learn Git Branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/), for an enjoyable way to tackle an important concept
- [Git Markdown Emoji](https://github.com/ikatyang/emoji-cheat-sheet), to spice up your Git repos
- [Article on Writing Good Commit Messages](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/), which pretty much everyone could stand to improve ;)
- [Github Student Developer Pack](https://education.github.com/pack), seriously, if you're a student you should have this
- [Intro to Git Rebase](https://dev.to/maxwell_dev/the-git-rebase-introduction-i-wish-id-had), a great explanation of a powerful command -->

### Contributing

1. Fork UltimateRegexResource [here](https://github.com/GoldinGuy/UltimateRegexResource/fork)
2. Create a branch with your improvements (`git checkout -b improvement/fooBar`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some fooBar'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin improvement/fooBar`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

#### Meta

Created by [@GoldinGuy](https://github.com/GoldinGuy) for the FAU Google DSC Regex Event.

<!-- Markdown link & img dfn's -->

[discord-url]: https://discord.gg/gKYSMeJ
[discord]: https://img.shields.io/discord/689176425701703810
[issues]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/GoldinGuy/UltimateRegexResource
[issues-url]: https://github.com/GoldinGuy/UltimateRegexResource/issues
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/GoldinGuy/UltimateRegexResource.svg?style=flat-square
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/GoldinGuy/UltimateRegexResource/graphs/contributors
